---
title: 2022-OCT Release 1.2.5
order: 20221026
date: 2022-OCT-26
---

# API Services Portal Release 1.2.5

The API Services Portal has been updated with some enhancements and bug fixes.

**Enhancements**

-   User interface and experience improvements to the API Provider products page.
-   Promote consistency by following the BC Government’s design guidelines
-   Easier navigation
    

**Fixes**

-   We refactored and migrated data used for IDIR authentication. This was done to increase the security of IDIR data.
-   If an API Provider  edited controls for a product and missed required information, the changes appeared  successful but were not saved.  This issue has been resolved by adding a warning that prompts users to enter missing information.
-   When an API Consumer deleted an application, the application appeared to still exist because the system was  not refreshing the page with the new list of applications.  This issue has been fixed, and deleted applications appear deleted immediately.
-   The system was experiencing issues with client roles, preventing API Consumers from using APIs. This issue has been resolved so that:
	- Roles are set properly on access approval
	- Roles can be modified in the Consumer Environment dialog
	- Roles appear in the generated Bearer Token using the credentials a Developer receives
-   If an API Provider changed their own access permissions to a Namespace  and continued to manage the Namespace, errors occurred, and re-login was required. Now, when a user updates their own permissions, the permissions are updated immediately for their current session and re-login is not required.
-   If an API Provider created a dataset without a title, all products on the Namespace’s  Products page  showed errors for all users.  Entering a title is now mandatory so this scenario cannot occur.
