---
title: 2024-SEPT Release 3.0.0
order: 20240919
date: 2024-SEPT-19
---

# API Services Portal Release 3.0.0

The API Services Portal has been updated with enhancements to improve the API
provider experience. The core of these updates is the renaming of 'Namespace' to
 'Gateways' throughout the API Services Portal.

## Enhancements

* The term 'Namespace' is now renamed to 'Gateway'.
  * Across all our products, every mention of 'Namespace' (which refers to the
    container used to hold a collection of Kong Gateway Services and Routes,
    typically managed by a single team or business unit) has been updated to
    'Gateway'.
  * All existing Namespaces will be retained but will now be referred to as Gateways.
  * The only remaining trace of Namespace is the `ns.` prefix required in tags
    for Gateway Service configuration (`tags: [ ns.<gatewayId> ]`).
* Gateways now feature a customizable display name.
  * This display name is prominently displayed throughout the API Services Portal.
  * For existing Namespaces, the default display name will be `<IDIR>'s Gateway`.
* The Namespace `name` attribute has been renamed to `gatewayId` for Gateways.
  * This change aims to prevent confusion between `gatewayId` and the new
    `displayName` attribute for Gateways.
  * The gatewayId is still used for setting the current Gateway in the CLI (`gwa
    config set gateway <gatewayId>`) and in tags within Gateway Service
    configuration (`tags: [ ns.<gatewayId> ]`).
* Gateway selection user interface has changed.
  * A new **My Gateways** page has been added, featuring a searchable list of Gateways.
  * The Gateway dropdown selector has been relocated and updated. It now appears
    only on relevant API provider pages.
* New starting page for new users after API provider login.
  * Users without any Gateways are directed to <https://api.gov.bc.ca/manager/gateways/get-started>.
  * This page provides a basic introduction and instructions for the new Quick
    Start tutorial for API providers.
  * The new Quick Start tutorial offers a simpler option to begin with before
    progressing to the [Protect an API with Client Credential Flow](https://developer.gov.bc.ca/docs/default/component/aps-infra-platform-docs/tutorials/protect-client-cred/)
    tutorial (previously called Quick Start).
  * The revised Quick Start tutorial utilizes a new `quick-start` configuration
  template.
* Additional Changes:
  * **Gateways** is no longer visible in the navigation bar for non-IDIR users
    (BCeID, BC Services Card, GitHub).
  * The **Namespace Access** page is renamed to **Administration Access**.

!!! Note:- "New gateway creation"

* Whereas previously it was possible to create a new Namespace via the `gwa`
CLI or API Services Portal web interface, it is now _only_ possible to create
Gageways using `gwa`.

## `gwa` CLI 3.0.1

The `gwa` command line tool has been updated to support the changes to the API
Services Portal, along with additional improvements to support Gateway Service
configuration.

* New default behaviour (`gwa gateway create`) is to autogenerate a unique
  `gatewayId` and prompt for a custom display name.
* Improvements to error reporting for Gateway Service publication (`gwa apply`
  and `gwa publish-gateway`) to support troubleshooting.
* Improvements to Gateway Service configuration creation using templates (`gwa
  generate-config`).
  * Gateway `service` and `route` names are validated for availability during
  configuration creation.
