title: 2026-MAY-12 Keycloak PKCE Enforcement for GWA-CLI
order: 20260512
date: 2026-MAY-12
---

# Keycloak PKCE Enforcement for `gwa-cli`

On `2026-MAY-12`, Keycloak will be updated to require PKCE (Proof Key for Code Exchange) with S256 (SHA-256) for interactive `gwa-cli` user logins that use the OAuth 2.0 Device Flow.

This change applies only to interactive user login. Service account login is not impacted and continues to work with older versions of `gwa-cli`. Existing CI/CD tasks that use service accounts do not need to be updated for this change.

# `gwa-cli` Update 3.1.0

A new version of `gwa-cli` was released on April 22, 2026.

Version `3.1.0` adds support for PKCE with S256. Previous versions of `gwa-cli` did not implement PKCE.

After the Keycloak update, older versions of `gwa-cli` will no longer work for interactive user login because they do not support PKCE with S256. Users who log in interactively must upgrade to `gwa-cli` version `3.1.0` or later.

No changes are required to how users run or interact with the CLI. PKCE with S256 is enabled by default in `gwa-cli` version `3.1.0`.

Instructions for obtaining the latest version are available in the [gwa-cli installation guide](https://developer.gov.bc.ca/docs/default/component/aps-infra-platform-docs/how-to/gwa-install/).

# Temporary Use Before Keycloak Enforcement

Before the Keycloak PKCE setting is enforced, users of `gwa-cli` version `3.1.0` can temporarily disable PKCE by adding the following setting to their `~/.gwa-config.yaml` file:

```yaml
pkce_method: None
```

This should only be used temporarily when connecting to an environment that does not yet support PKCE. After the Keycloak update is complete, interactive user login must use PKCE with S256.

To re-enable the default behaviour, remove the `pkce_method` setting from `~/.gwa-config.yaml`. When `pkce_method` is not set, `gwa-cli` defaults to S256.